In the last couple of videos, we've looked at a bunch of diagrams that laid out a bunch of different solutions to this concurrency stuff.

So now in this video, we're going to try to come up with some kind of solution to this problem.

I'm going to tell you right now, this is going to be a long video, but I've kind of planned it with a ton of diagrams.

So hopefully it should capture your interest for some amount of time.

Let me first begin by telling you what we're really going to do in this video and how we're going to solve this concurrency stuff.

So I'm going to make a claim here.

I'm going to say that this entire accounting application that we're trying to fix up with this concurrency stuff is just poorly designed.

And in all the solutions we've looked at so far, we've been trying to figure out how we could somehow use nets to save this concurrency problem or somehow fix it.

In other words, we've been looking at gnat's and trying to imagine how we could use those sequence numbers and so on to somehow properly order these events.

I'm going to make a big claim here and say that that was actually a really poor approach.

It's the system itself that is poorly designed.

In other words, we can't really use nets to somehow save this application or this accounting stuff.

We need to figure out how to redesign the application itself.

We need to figure out how to redesign the services inside of it, and if we provide a better design to the system, I think you're going to see that a better solution for this concurrency stuff is actually going to present itself without even worrying about any of the internal features of gnats whatsoever.

So long story short, what we're really going to do in this video is try to redesign this accounting service.

And then at the very end, after we redesign the entire thing, we're going to very quickly see that there's actually a pretty easy and straightforward way to solve all this concurrency problem.

So let's get to it, we're going to first try to redesign this accounting application to get started.

We're going to look at something that looks very unrelated right now.

I know this looks really unrelated.

I want to think back in time to that blog post application we worked on in the first section of this course.

So in that application, we had a request handler that would allow us to create a new post so we'd make a request to create a post that would go to the post service, the postal service would save that post internally.

It was in memory, but we'll call it a database, whatever.

We then created an event to describe that post being created.

We sent that off to a eventless that we had built, and that event eventually flowed on to our query service.

And the goal of that query service was to take a lot of these different events and build up a complete picture of all the different posts and comments we had inside of our.

The comment service was very similar.

We made a request to the Common Service, we saved it to some database, we emitted an event, and then it flowed on to the query service.

So I now want to take this diagram right here and just simplify it a little bit, apply some easier to understand terminology in some critical locations.

OK, so a very similar diagram.

I've just simplified it a pretty good amount.

I also removed the comments related stuff.

So here's what was really going on.

We made a request to create a post that went to the post service and that was a service that was 100 percent responsible for what a post was.

It knew exactly all the attributes that the Post had and was the canonical source to define what a post was.

We store that information inside of a database, and we then emitted some event describing the fact that the post was just created, we didn't actually send that over to gnats that went to our custom event bus, but essentially that eventually got related over to the query service where that event was consumed.

Not going to even further simplify this diagram.

I can remove the idea of post entirely.

I'm going remove the idea of query service and just put on some more generic terminology.

OK, now in here, we've got some really generic terms that's going to describe what we're going to try to do over on the accounting service or that accounting application as well.

So we really want to have in general in a micro services application, we want to somehow make a request to modify a resource.

That request should always go to some service that completely owns that resource.

In this case, we're imagining it's a resource called X, Y, Z.

So that service is going to own the definition of what X, Y, Z is when receives a request to create, update or delete this resource.

Well, those changes will be made and some accompanying database.

Well, then emit an event describing the fact that the X, Y, Z resource has changed and that event can flow to all the other services inside of rap that need to modify its data based upon this event.

So I now want to take this kind of flow right here and apply it to the accounting application.

So when we go back over to the accounting application diagrams we've been working with, there's a couple of things that immediately pop up to me.

We've been putting a tremendous focus on the Napster server.

And the service that somehow listening to events coming out of it and so respectively, that's really a reference to this part of the diagram right here, this yellow box and this gray box down here.

And our entire design for this accounting application we've been working with has 100 percent neglected

everything over here.

In other words, we have not even remotely begun to think about what this publisher thing it really

is, where these events are coming from and the underlying data that these events correspond to.

So here's what I want to do.

I want to get a better idea of what service is actually managing these events right here.

And like I said, as soon as we start to get a better idea of what the service is that's actually meeting

these events and handling this concurrency stuff is going to get a lot easier.

So when I look at this publisher, I'm seeing that it's emitting some events, kind of concerned with

account transactions of sorts, a transaction, let's imagine, is something that tries to exchange

money in or out of an account.

So if we try to follow the same pattern of something like this right here to describe this accounting

application, we might end up with something like this right here.

So down here at the bottom right hand side, we still have an account service, we still have the Nats event bus, but now we've got this entire idea of a service that is somehow going to receive requests to create a transaction thing, a service that's going to record all these transactions, a database for storing them.

And then any time someone tries to create a transaction, chances are we're going to emit some kind of event describing the fact that a transaction was just created.

And so these events right here that we're going to emit or essentially use of these events right here inside this diagram.

Now, let's start to think about how we would actually design the service and have some database to store the transactions that people are trying to create, so we might end up with something like this right here.

So in this diagram, we're imagining that someone's logging on to maybe some banking website, as some particular user will imagine that it's a user with an ID of C, Z, Q, and then this user on our banking website is going to use the online banking stuff and eventually try to deposit 70 dollars, then 40 and then withdraw a hundred.

Now, if we really start to follow this pattern or the pattern side, this diagram right here, imagine what would really go on behind the scenes.

Each of these requests would probably fall off to some transaction service.

And then from there, the transaction service would want to store those in some kind of database and maybe in this database we would store the user I.D. who made the transaction or who created it.

And then it would associated with that would be a list of all the transactions that they have created over time.

So the first request would maybe create a record like this right here, maybe the second request.

Would create a record like so, and then the third request withdrawn, would create a record like that right there.

And then once again, if we really follow the pattern laid out in this diagram as we store all these

different records inside this transactions database, we'd probably want to also emit some kind of event describing the fact that we had just emitted or created these transactions.

So it's kind of back to that process as well.

So here's our transactions database transaction service, we're going to want to emit some events describing the fact that these things were just created and maybe send them over to, say, our customer event bus or in this case, let's say we're sending off to the Napster server.

So I want to imagine what an event would look like that would describe these things being created.

Well, maybe you would look something like this maybe for the first object out there, the first transaction, we would emit an object or an event with a type of transaction created.

And then inside of here.

We would probably want to list some information about the transaction that just been created as well, so maybe we would say it was a deposit of seventy dollars, maybe the transaction itself has an ID of S.J JF So I'd Jeff.

And then maybe we also put on, say, the user's ID as well.

So like user ID and that is si si que.

And then maybe kind of interestingly, maybe it would be handy for some reason, I don't know, let's

just imagine if we also included in this event a description of what this transactions number was for

this user.

So let's say that the very first transaction that a user creates has a number of one and then the next

one has a number of two, then a number of three and so on.

So for this first event, I would give it a number of one.

So we'll say this is very similar to a sequence number, but it's kind of being determined by this database

as opposed to gnat's or something like that.

So now we can repeat that process for these other two transactions as well.

I would create another one, this one would be a deposit of 40 and I'd have five twenty five and a number

of two.

And then finally, this last one would be a withdrawal.

Of one hundred, maybe we'll give it an idea as well as well out of one kill one, and this would be

at number three.

So now these are the three events that we can imagine we would throw over to prevent us.

And we want those to eventually flow on to any services.

That want to somehow watch for new transactions being created.

And so in our case, that would be the account service.

So let's now imagine how that account service would really be put together.

So we've once again got our transactions database, we've got the Napster server, maybe it has a channel

of transaction created and we can imagine maybe there are two account services listening for events

from that channel and that these account services, very similar to the query service we had put together

earlier, probably would have some kind of database for it that would take in a list of all these transactions

and then prevent or present or calculate a total sum for each user's account balance.

So I'm going to go and pull those events we just to find over and we'll imagine what these things would

do to process these events.

So we can imagine the first event would flow maybe to a right here, so let's just take the information

out of this event and store it inside this accounts database.

And here's the part where since we've gone through this really and have better design of the transaction

service, you're going to see that these concurrency issues start to fall away and the concurrency issue

is going to fall away without having to rely upon any fancy features of gnat's server.

So we're going to imagine that we start to process this event right here.

OK, so let's imagine side of our accounts database.

We've got our user, KIKUE, that's the person we care about.

And maybe we've got some other users inside of here as well.

We don't really care about them, whatever, but they exist inside of here right now.

Cizik, who has a balance of presumably zero.

I also want to try to record the last transaction number, so this last transaction number is going

to be essentially the number of the last transaction that we processed.

When we first create queue, they'll start off with the balance of zero and no last transaction number

because we've not processed any transactions related to them yet.

It's now a process to say, OK, it's deposit 70, so we'll increment by 70.

And the number of this transaction was number one, so put in the one like so, OK, that was simple

enough.

Now we can move on to.

Our next transaction, the one of number two.

So once again, we're looking at Susie Q.

It's a deposit of 40, so we'll go up to 110.

And now our last transaction that's created was to sell update Landstar at last transaction number to

do as well.

Now we can move on to the third one.

In this case, still, users argue it's a withdrawal of one hundred and a last transaction number is

three in this case or this transactions numbers three will update Landstar transaction number to three

and subtract one hundred off the balance.

And so we're left with 10.

And so in this scenario, it definitely looks like everything still works as expected, right?

We still, at the end of the day, end up with some user with the balance and assuming that all these

events flow through the way we expect.

In other words, nothing crashes.

We don't get any double issue of an event or anything like that.

It appears that everything works as expected.

So now let's kind of go through this flow again.

Let's imagine that some of these events are not properly processed.

In other words, let's imagine that maybe this first event goes to service A.

And service say in that instant crashes entirely so you and I know, based upon what we've done with

Gnat's at this point in time, we know that if this thing crashes and we don't acknowledge this event

for 30 seconds, eventually Gnat's will reissue it to someone else inside this Kuga.

But right now, let's just imagine this thing gets sent into service day and it just does not get processed

right away.

And then simultaneously, maybe event number two right here flows in as well.

So at this point, this event not going to be processed, this event will be processed.

It's now what would happen?

Well, let's add in a new rule here as well.

Let's say that because each of these transaction events right here have a number associated with them,

we only want to process this thing if the last transaction number for this user stored inside of our

database is equal to that number minus one.

So once again, this thing has crashed, we're just going to forget about it, we can't process it right

now.

We have to wait 30 seconds.

So then this event comes into service, be so service be is going to take a look at it.

It's going to say, OK, let's see.

All right.

Deposit 40 for users KIKUE and it's a number of two.

That's the number of the transaction.

So now we could set up the service so it looks at its database.

Finds user Kikue takes a look at the last transaction number and in this case it doesn't have one yet.

So ideally, we want to say, take a look at this number of to subtract one, and that's what you should

have for the last transaction number, but there's nothing there.

We don't have one.

And because of that, we're going to have service be set up to say, oh, well, I guess we haven't

processed transaction one yet.

I'm just going to forget this event.

I'm just going to pass over it entirely.

So what just happened?

Well, we failed a process event number one, it will be processed or we will attempt to process it

again, 30 seconds in the future.

But critically, we didn't process that thing before the second one.

And that was OK, because since we have this number field on here and we were recording the last transaction

number inside of our current database, we knew not to attempt to process this second transaction,

even though it was handled by a totally different service than the one that rejected the transaction,

number one.

So we can now imagine that we basically now sit around and we're going to wait 30 seconds for both these

things to time out and eventually be reissued by Gnat's.

So maybe 30 seconds goes by.

And that sees that this message never got acknowledged.

So it's then going to take it and pass it on to service be.

Now, Cerevisiae is going to take a look at this thing, it's going to say, OK, deposit 70 to user

KIKUE and it's a number of one.

OK, let's go find Susie Q..

Oh, they don't have the last transaction number.

Well, that's OK, because this is the very first transaction.

So we'll set last transaction to one and we'll do our deposit of 70.

And that's it, we've now successfully processed that event.

Now we can imagine that after those 30 seconds now, maybe event number two right here finally gets

reissued.

Because it timed out during those 30 seconds.

Now, once again, we're going to take a look at the thing users queue last transaction recorded of

one.

This one has a number of two.

OK, well, two minus one is one.

Fantastic.

It lines up.

It means that we process the first transaction.

We are now onto the second one.

Let's process this thing and commit it to our database.

So in this case, we can deposit forty dollars.

We're now up to 110.

And then, as usual, we take in this last event.

Oh, I forgot to update the last transaction number on that second one has now taken this last event.

OK, user Susie Q. Last transaction number of two, we are now on number three.

Yep.

All lines up.

Let's go ahead and do that.

Withdrawal of one hundred and now we're down to ten.

So by adding on this no field right here, we have effectively solved all the different concurrency

issues that we ran through in the last couple of videos, this solves the issue where Gnat's thinks

the decline is still alive when it's actually dead.

This solves the issue where maybe one listener might run more quickly than another.

This also solves the issue where a listener can fail to process an event.

And we have to wait a 30 second time out for that event to be reissued.

This also solve some issues we ran through in the last video as well, where we might have different

users trying to use the database or commit events at the same time.

So if we imagine there are other users or other users creating transactions, no problem if there's

something wrong with this transaction right here.

In other words, if we're still on transaction number one and waiting for number two to be committed,

that is not going to prevent user J-P for or user can from creating transactions as well.

It is a per user lockout or again, in this case, we don't want to think about this as per user.

This entire idea can be used with any arbitrary kind of resource.

So this entire idea would have worked with, say, comments as well.

Now, at this point, I just want to kind of reflect and say that a lot of this stuff was solved really

by adding on just that no field.

But we were not able to add on that number of field until we started to really understand the service

that all these events were going to come from, which in this case was the transactions database.

So the transaction service.

You might immediately say, well, Stephen, this is only going to work if we somehow no each of these

transactions and that would have been easy because presumably we're sticking these transactions in array

tied to user KIKUE.

That is true.

But as you'll see very shortly, we can apply the same methodology to normal records as well.

So we could use the same methodology with, say, our tickets.

Service, so we just worked on a little bit ago with our ticket service, we don't have an array to

rely upon or anything like that, but eventually we might want to emit some kind of event like, say,

ticket related until the outside world that, hey, we just created ticket and here's some information

about it.

So, again, we don't really have the benefits or anything like that of working with some numbering

of these tickets because the ticket is one standalone record.

But there are some ways that we can have a very similar approach or the similar idea of numbering updates

to a ticket over time and then making sure that those updates are applied sequentially to some other

service that relies upon its.

OK, so at this point, you might be sitting there thinking, and I'm not quite seeing this stuff.

Don't sweat it.

We're going to pause right here.

We're going to write out a little bit more code just to work with our little test example that we've

had going on around this accounting stuff.

We're then going to start to go back over to events inside of our actual ticketing application.

And you're going to see how this idea of recording a last transaction number of sorts is going to work

to solve concurrency issues inside of our ticketing application as well.

So, as usual, quick pause right here and I'll see you in just a minute.

